# Swift_KBOBin
This is the numerical simulation code used to model the dynamical evolution of TNO binaries in Campbell, Anderson, &amp; Kaib (2024). It is nearly identical to the SWIFT RMVS4 code designed by Levison & Duncan, which can be downloaded here: https://www.boulder.swri.edu/~hal/swift.html. Thus, the documentation is nearly the same, and the vast majority of the operation of the code can be understood by reading the original SWIFT README files and references therein, which are included in this repository. 

The changes to the original RMVS algorithm are understood as follows: We model the dynamical evolution of binaries by assuming the total binary mass is in the primary, which we consider the central body of our simulation. An arbitrary number of hypothetical secondary companions are simulated as test particles, whose initial conditions are listed in the tp.in file. The original version of SWIFT RMVS lists the initial conditions of all massive bodies in pl.in, but our pl.in file will only contain the initial conditions of our binary primary object, which sits at the origin with zero velocity. 

As the binary companions orbit the primary, they are perturbed by the Sun's gravity. We model this as a solar-mass object on a fixed circular orbit about the binary's primary. This mass of the Sun (in simulation units where distance is in au and time is in days) and the semimajor axis of its fixed circular orbit are listed in the final two lines of the mvs.in. 

In addition, the binary companions are perturbed by the gravity of occasional massive passing objects. The initial positions, velocities, masses and passage times of these objects are read from a binary file whose name is specified on the fourth line of the mvs.in file. If the encounter timescale of the passing body (impact parameter over initial velocity, which is also estimated and listed in the passages binary file) is greater than the integration step size (which we typically set to 1/20 of an orbital period), then the passing body's effects are modeled with a direct integration. Otherwise, the impulse approximation is employed, and the body's perturbation on the binary secondaries is implemented instantaneously. 
